---
layout: page
title: Invited Talks
invisible: true
---

{:.center}
![park]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/park.jpg){:height="250px"}

{:.center}
#### **[Frank Chongwoo Park](http://robotics.snu.ac.kr/fcp/)**

{:.center}
*Seoul National University*

**Time:** Wednesday July 12, 11 AM

**Title:** [Manifolds, Geometry, and Robotics]({{ site.baseurl }}/docs/invitedtalks/park-manifoldsgeometryandrobotics.pdf)

**Abstract:** Ideas and methods from differential geometry and Lie groups have
played a crucial role in establishing the scientific foundations of robotics,
and more than ever, influence the way we think about and formulate the latest
problems in robotics. In this talk I will trace some of this history, and also
highlight some recent developments in this geometric line of inquiry. The focus
for the most part will be on robot mechanics, planning, and control, but some
results from vision and image analysis, and human modeling, will be presented. I
will also make the case that many mainstream problems in robotics, particularly
those that at some stage involve nonlinear dimension reduction techniques or
some other facet of machine learning, can be framed as the geometric problem of
mapping one curved space into another, so as to minimize some notion of
distortion. A Riemannian geometric framework will be developed for this
distortion minimization problem, and its generality illustrated via examples
from robot design to manifold learning.

**Biography:** Frank Park received his B.S. in EECS from MIT in 1985, and
Ph.D. in applied mathematics from Harvard University in 1991. He joined the
mechanical and aerospace engineering faculty at the University of California,
Irvine in 1991, and since 1995 he has been professor of mechanical and aerospace
engineering at Seoul National University, where he is currently serving as
department chair since June 2017. His research interests are in robot mechanics,
planning and control, vision and image processing, machine learning, and related
areas of applied mathematics. He has been an IEEE Robotics and Automation
Society Distinguished Lecturer, and received best paper awards for his work on
visual tracking and parallel robot design. He has served on the editorial boards
of the Springer Handbook of Robotics, Springer Advanced Tracts in Robotics
(STAR), Robotica, and the ASME Journal of Mechanisms and Robotics. He has held
adjunct faculty positions at the NYU Courant Institute and the Interactive
Computing Department at Georgia Tech, and is currently adjunct professor at the
Robotics Institute at HKUST. He is a fellow of the IEEE, current editor-in-chief
of the IEEE Transactions on Robotics, developer of the EDX course Robot
Mechanics and Control I, II, and co-author (with Kevin Lynch) of Modern
Robotics: Mechanics, Planning and Control (2017 Cambridge University Press).
