---
layout: page
title: Keynote Talk
description: Keynote talk title, abstract and speaker bio.
priority: 8
invisible: false
---

It is our great pleasure to announce this year's Keynote Talk by Josh
Tenenbaum. Please join us for this exciting talk with Q&A on July 15.

<table class="table">

<tr>
<th style="text-align:center;">
	<img src="http://spectrum.mit.edu/wp-content/images/2009-fall/understanding-intelligence.jpg" width="250"/>
	<br/>
	<a href="http://web.mit.edu/cocosci/josh.html">
		Josh Tenenbaum
	</a>
	<br/>
	<i><span style="font-weight:normal">MIT</span></i>
	<br/>
	<b>July 15, 17:00 UTC</b>
</th>
<th>
	<b>Title:</b>
	<p style="text-align:justify; font-weight:normal;">
	It's all in your head: Intuitive physics, planning, and problem-solving in brains, minds and machines
	</p>
	
	<b>Abstract:</b>
	<p style="text-align:justify; font-weight:normal;">

I will overview what we know about the human mind's internal models of
the physical world, including how these models arise over evolution
and developmental learning, how they are implemented in neural
circuitry, and how they are used to support planning and rapid
trial-and-error problem-solving in tool use and other physical
reasoning tasks.  I will also discuss prospects for building more
human-like physical common sense in robots and other AI systems.

	</p>
	
	<b>Biography:</b>
	<p style="text-align:justify; font-weight:normal;">
	
Joshua Tenenbaum is Professor of Computational Cognitive Science at
MIT in the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, the Computer
Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) and the Center
for Brains, Minds and Machines (CBMM).  His long-term goal is to
reverse-engineer intelligence in the human mind and brain, and to use
these insights to engineer more human-like machine intelligence. In
cognitive science, he is best known for developing theories of
cognition as probabilistic inference in structured generative models,
and applications to concept learning, causal reasoning, language
acquisition, visual perception, intuitive physics, and theory of
mind. In AI, he and his group have developed widely used models for
nonlinear dimensionality reduction, probabilistic programming, and
Bayesian unsupervised learning and structure discovery. His current
research focuses on common-sense scene understanding and action
planning, the development of common sense in infants and young
children, and learning through probabilistic program induction and
neuro-symbolic program synthesis. His work has been published in many
leading journals and recognized with awards at conferences in
Cognitive Science, Computer Vision, Neural Information Processing
Systems, Reinforcement Learning and Decision Making, and Robotics. He
is the recipient of the Distinguished Scientific Award for Early
Career Contributions in Psychology from the American Psychological
Association (2008), the Troland Research Award from the National
Academy of Sciences (2011), the Howard Crosby Warren Medal from the
Society of Experimental Psychologists (2016), the R&D Magazine
Innovator of the Year award (2018), and a MacArthur Fellowship
(2019). He is a fellow of the Cognitive Science Society, the Society
for Experimental Psychologists, and a member of the American Academy
of Arts and Sciences.


	</p>
</th>
</tr>
</table>

