---
layout: page
title: "Material Robotics (MaRo)"
comments: true
invisible: true
---

<p class="text-left"><i>Organizers: Yigit Menguc, Rebecca Kramer, Nikolaus Correll, Jamie Paik</i></p>
<p class="text-left"><i>Website: <a href="http://research.engr.oregonstate.edu/mlab/RSS2017.html">http://research.engr.oregonstate.edu/mlab/RSS2017.html</a></i></p>

<p>
The original vision of a "robot" introduced by Karel ÄŒapek in 1920 was that of
an autonomous machine molded in the image of humans. Interestingly, the play
begins with a discussion of the materials that make up the robots and
introduces the techniques used to spin and extrude such materials into
synthetic body parts. Apparently, it was intuitive to imagine robots not just
in our image but also from the same kind of active squishy materials.
Considering robots as closely influenced by and contributing to the study of
materials can make this vision a reality. The goal of this workshop is bring
together researchers in robotics and materials science to learn from each
other, and identify the research challenges and applications of robotic
materials. Robotic materials are a new class of multifunctional composites that
tightly integrate sensing, actuation, computation, and communication. Material
robots are a new class of autonomous machines that exploit material properties
to extend and expand normal robotic operations. The convergence of the two
approaches results in such capabilities as changing appearance, stiffness or
shape in response to the environment while performing large-scale distributed
computation right where the signals are generated and control is needed.
Applications range from underwater robots that withstand crushing hydrostatic
pressures yet safely grasp artifacts, soft adaptive fabrics that actively
support and diagnose medical conditions, airplane wings that self-diagnose and
morph, civil engineering structures that self-monitor and adapt to their users'
needs, and multifunctional everyday objects ranging from furniture to tableware
that change shape or color for the occasion.
</p>



{% include disqus.html %}