---
layout: page
title: "The What without the How: Specifying Planning Problems in Robotics"
comments: true
invisible: true
---

<p class="text-left"><i>Organizers: Cristian Vasile, Vasumathi Raman</i></p>
<p class="text-left"><i>Website: <a href="http://sites.bu.edu/hyness/rss-tlzoo/">http://sites.bu.edu/hyness/rss-tlzoo/</a></i></p>

<p>
Every new graduate student is told that when it comes to research, a good
problem formulation is half the battle won. As the responsibilities we give to
robots and autonomous vehicles become more complex by the day, the time is ripe
to step back and redefine the basic blocks that define the planning problems we
solve when creating "autonomy".  The classical piano-mover's problem has
dominated the motion planning literature for decades, and is still unsolved for
many domains, but increasingly, planning problems involve responding to
uncertainty, stochasticity, partial observability, unwieldy dynamics, and other
challenges. Moreover, the "what" itself is evolving. Planning for long-term
autonomy, collaborative and surveillance tasks have all motivated unique
reformulations of the classical planning problem, including novel means of
specifying desired behavior such as temporal logics and domain-specific
languages, as well as natural language instructions. This workshop is an
attempt to wrangle these disparate approaches and make some sense of the zoo of
options.  Participants will be treated to a breadth of current approaches from
area experts, and encouraged to be critical of new modes of specification and
the utility of the planning approaches that go therewith. Activities have been
carefully structured to encourage interaction amongst participants, and to
provide a platform for congenial collegial debate between various relevant
communities.
</p>



{% include disqus.html %}