---
layout: page
title: "Morality and Social Trust in Autonomous Robots"
comments: true
invisible: true
---

<p class="text-left"><i>Organizers: Morteza Lahijanian, Mária Svoreňová, Nisar Ahmed, Patrick Lin, Marta Kwiatkowska</i></p>
<p class="text-left"><i>Website: <a href="http://qav.cs.ox.ac.uk/autonomy_morality_trust/">http://qav.cs.ox.ac.uk/autonomy_morality_trust/</a></i></p>

<p>
Robots are becoming members of our society. Complex algorithms have been making
robots increasingly sophisticated machines with rising levels of autonomy,
enabling them to leave behind their traditional work places in factories and to
enter our society with convoluted social rules, relationships, and
expectations. Driverless cars, home assistive robots, and unmanned aerial
vehicles are just a few examples. As the level of involvement of such systems
increases in our daily lives, their decisions affect us more directly.
Therefore, we instinctively expect robots to behave morally and make ethical
decisions. For instance, we expect a firefighter robot to follow ethical
principles when faced with a choice of saving one's life over another's in a
rescue mission, and we expect an eldercare robot to take a moral stance in
following its owner's instructions when they are in conflict with the interest
of others. Such expectations give rise to the notion of trust in human-robot
relationship and to questions such as "how can I trust a driverless car to take
my child to school?" In order to design algorithms that can generate
morally-aware and ethical decisions and hence creating trustworthy robots, we
need to understand the conceptual theory of morality in machine autonomy in
addition to understanding, formalizing, and expressing trust itself.  This is a
tremendously challenging (yet necessary) task involving many aspects including
philosophy, sociology, psychology, cognitive reasoning, logic, and computation.
In this workshop, we aim to continue the discussions initiated in our RSS 2016
workshop on "Social Trust in Autonomous Robots" with the additional theme of
ethics and morality to shed light on these multifaceted notions from various
perspectives through a series of talks and panel discussions.
</p>



{% include disqus.html %}